# YouTube resume for Chris Trees

I'm not a fan of the traditional resume and interview process, but a huge fan of process documentation followed pull requests generated from user feedback.  So I will combine a chore I dred, the [resume update](./christrees-resume-update-process/), with a process I welcome, [git project management](./christrees-resume-update-process/).  Meet the [Chris Trees Resume GitHub](https://github.com/christrees/christrees.github.com/) project with [Chris Trees YouTube interviews]().

The best traditional work history information about myself is on [https://www.linkedin.com/in/christrees/](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christrees/).   So, for this project we will use the PDF generated by clicking the More... button then "Save as PDF" on [Linkedin - Chris Trees](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christrees/).  Below is the output of the "Save as PDF" process on the [Linkedin - Chris Trees](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christrees/) page.  My process goal is to deep link as much project information as possible into this project.

- [Linkedin Profile - Chris Trees](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christrees/)
- [Linkedin Profile PDF - Chris Trees](./LinkedinProfile-ChrisTrees.pdf)
- [Github christrees.github.com](https://github.com/christrees/christrees.github.com)

# Experience
The following is text from the Linkedin Profile PDF.  Each work experience is linked to additional detail if availible.

## [CAT9, LLC](./resume201804-cat9)
What is next Research
### April 2018 - Present (3 years)
In a Place, out in Space

- Researching AI learning feedback methods. 
- Researching deployment for Blender grid rendering using Bare Metal infrastructure. 
- Researching SDN, SDS and CI/CD methods for Bare Metal infrastructure. 
- Researching automated infrastructure deployment and USDA broadband efforts for small rural communities. 
- Researching building Blockchain foundations for Edge Communities. 
- Researching who I should work with next.

## [Mail Services, LLC](./resume201208-msllc)
Research Developer
### August 2012 - April 2018 (5 years 9 months)

- Researched NFC production process to leverage USPS commercialization incentives. 
- Evaluated and integrated AGILE, CI/CD, QA testing and system virtualization. 
- Researched storage migration solutions. 
- Evaluated production site maintenance processes. The site was PHP based with access to restrictedstorage, networks, and SQL backend database.

## [OvalPath](./resume201104-ovalpath)
Sr. Software Engineer
San Jose, CA 95112 and Cedar Fall, IA 50613

### April 2011 - August 2012 (1 year 5 months)
Social Mobile communications platform serving the commercial nuclear power market.

- Developed HTML5 map annotation for mobile field devices.
- Established QA Test Automation and build documentation. Worked as Sales
- Engineer with CEO to adopt the platform to specific needs of new customers.

[Acquired by CurtissWright](http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/curtisswright-flow-control-acquires-ovalpath-nyse-cw-1837177.htm)

## [CAT Services / Croft Utility Partners](./resume200903-cat)
Consultant / Founder
Cedar Fall, IA 50613

### March 2009 - April 2011 (2 years 2 months)
Croft Utility Partners ( http://croftutilitypartners.com/ ) leverages and extends
unique infrastructure and usage patterns of each community to reduce reliance
on external commodities, encourage development of localized resources
and facilitate sales of excess capacity within the network. The Croft concept
was born out of the desire to serve technology to small rural communities in
a locally relevant, economically maintainable and socially acceptable way.
These efforts lead us to integration of power, water, sewer and emergency
communications systems.

## [Grasshorse LLC](./resume2008-grasshorse)
Technology / Grant Consultant
### June 2008 - February 2009 (9 months)
Embedded systems, software automation, and process management.
Managed creative artist team through a software production process. Helped
with a State Grant to commercialize the "Proto-Motion" mixed media stop
motion animation automation process. This project used multiple new
technologies creatively applied to the movie industry with experimental state
funding. This project opened my eyes to the benefits and huge risks of socialpolitical funding, the creative mindset in an operational process and mixing
multiple merging technologies. Established computer industry development
practices into the animation studio production process.

## Vianeta Communications
Consultant
### March 2005 - August 2006 (1 year 6 months)
Platform provider for medical transcription technology and services.
Developed tools and training materials for data center installation and testing.
[Acquired by Spheris](https://www.bizjournals.com/sanjose/stories/2005/12/19/daily13.html).

## Pantera Systems
Founder and Architect
### January 2002 - December 2002 (1 year)
Based on extending the idea of distributed grid computing, Pantera attempted
to build a distributed storage and compute engine for accelerated batch
processing. The grid matrix was used to distribute both storage, data base
and compute algorithms across traditional servers. Matrix reduce was then
used along with the storage index to keep working data within the various
cache systems increasing the overall processing speed.

## Monggo
Systems Design

## January 2000 - March 2001 (1 year 3 months)
Monggo (changed name to Levient) developed one of the first remote desktop
systems using WAP enabled devices (cell phones) as the terminal access
point. Developed a redundant high availability server infrastructure stack
deployed into multiple data centers. Developed automation for UI testing.
Developed automation for network health monitoring. Integrated network
monitoring into vendor Network Operations Centers (NOC).

## Vertical Networks
Sr. Systems Engineer
### February 1997 - February 2000 (3 years 1 month)
Consultant and first Hardware Engineering hired by Vertical Networks. Drove
hardware and mechanical design for the integrated LAN and Telephony
product called Instant Office. Also aided in the recruitment of early stage
engineering talent.

## Rapid City Communications
CAT Services
### April 1996 - February 1997 (11 months)
Another great group of people! Got to help them build another high-speeddensity backplane. Worked with some great S/W guys that really pushed into
simulations that worked with the H/W Dev guys... Wish I could have helped
them slam out some ASIC's, but had too many people asking for my time and
had to multi-plex.

## SkyStream
CAT Services
### July 1996 - October 1996 (4 months)
FPGA design tool assistance.

## Sun Microsystems
CAT Services
### October 1995 - July 1996 (10 months)
Netra group consultant for hardware. One of the better jobs I've ever had!
Developed embedded user control console for Netra server line. Invented a
serial multiplexing system for the serial attached embedded control console.
Integrated controller firmware and SUN OS device drivers. Designed multiple
PCB assemblies. Assisted in mechanical design, compliance testing, vendor
manufacturing testing and quality control.

## General Magic, Inc.
CAT Services
### September 1994 - July 1995 (11 months)
Great people to work with and I meet many people who've become part of my
lifelong tribe. If only they would have built the mock-up that AndyH carried
in his pocket... or what AndyH put on the TV. I worked mainly keeping the
partner development systems running. I did the mechanical and umbilical
demo system for what I think was the first touch based magic cell phone
prototype. BTW that is STILL my personal phone, I would LOVE to get it back
(if anyone knows where it is)... https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Magic


## Hughes
CAT Services
### January 1991 - August 1993 (2 years 8 months)
Designed one of the first ATM networking boxes in the industry. Very fun
project, got to make things that go FAST!!! All the cross bar switching, cache
management and learning the balance between H/W, F/W and S/W really
helped me gain a sense of balance with various design domain issues. https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sytek_Inc

## IKOS
Sales Engineer
### July 1990 - October 1990 (4 months)
Field sales engineer working on ASIC simulation integrations. Worked
on simulation models for multiple silicon vendor libraries. Also helped
various ASIC designers debug future and current silicon production issues.
Worked with OAK Technology on multiple ASIC design simulations. https://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oak_Technology

## The Engineering Dept. Inc. (TED)
Engineer / Member of Board
### July 1986 - September 1989 (3 years 3 months)
Great idea. Still ahead of it's time. Outsource your engineering. Reworked
development system via wire-wrap boards for "Little Blue". Little Blue (became
PC Transporter) was a co-processor board for the Apple II that allowed
the user to run IBM PC native software and use Apple II devices as native
IBM devices. Many ideas were ahead of the times, such as clone BIOS,
virtualization, distributed callbacks and storage normalization. The fun part
was getting to know a LOT of ex-Apple early engineers.

## Lockheed Martin
Engineer
### June 1985 - August 1986 (1 year 3 months)
First person to introduce PLA and FPGA's to QA test fixture design. Designed
and build first meta script process to covert vendor data sheets into a
functional timing simulation model. P387 - JohnK and I took a after-thought
project from 1 year behind to 6 months ahead of schedule!

## Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America (NGPL)
Summer Intern
### May 1983 - August 1984 (1 year 4 months)
Columbus Junction, IA and Beatrice, NE
### Summer of 1983 - Reviewed maintenance procedures for multiple
Compression Stations. Create draft of maintenance request for compressor
engine manifold replacement. Investigated and submitted RFQ that saved
NGPL $50K per station on manifold replacement procedure. Observed and
assisted multiple mainline replacement construction and cleaning projects.
### Summer of 1984 - Responsible for cathodic survey of 800 miles of NGPL
Pipeline in Kansas, Nebraska and Iowa. Drafted and submitted "Induced
currents in gas pipelines due to common power line right away."

## Education
Iowa State University
BS, Electrical Engineering · (1980 - 1985)
